MCP OAuth [Publish Oct 8th] (#7995)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-ai/setup-local-mcp.md

        "dbt-mcp": {
          "command": "uvx",
          "args": [

>            "--env-file",

Author: ```suggestion
            "--env-file",
```

>             "<environment_variable_file.env",

Author: ```suggestion
            "<path-to-.env-file>",
```

    ```

    `<path-to-.env-file>` is where you saved the `.env` file from the Setup step.

## dbt platform authentication <Lifecycle status="enterperprise, enterprise_plus" />

The local MCP server integrates with your existing cloud-based dbt platform OAuth integration with a simple configuration file in the client. Reference the following sample configurations:

:::info static subdomains

Only accounts with static subdomains (for example, abc123.us1.dbt.com) can use OAuth with MCP servers. All accounts are in the process of being migrated to static subdomains by Dec 2025. Please contact support for more information.

> :::

Reviewer: Once this migration is complete, this documentation should take precedence over what comes above it. Configuration via OAuth is preferred to configuration with env vars.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="dbt platform + CLI">

> Provide the standard JSON configuration file. The `DBT_PROJECT_DIR` and `DBT_PATH` fields are required.

Reviewer: How standard is this? I think Claude and Cursor use this format. I'm not sure of others.

Author: It looks the same in VS Code but I can remove that lingo

> Provide the standard JSON configuration file. The `DBT_PROJECT_DIR` and `DBT_PATH` fields are required.

Reviewer 2: We should add DBT_PATH can be found in account settings > access URL

Reviewer: This is actually the file path found on the user's file system. `DBT_HOST` can be found at `settings > access URL`.

Reviewer 2: yep! meant `DBT_HOST`

    ```

    `<path-to-.env-file>` is where you saved the `.env` file from the Setup step.

## dbt platform authentication <Lifecycle status="managed, managed_plus" />

The local MCP server integrates with your existing cloud-based dbt platform OAuth integration with a simple configuration file in the client. Reference the following sample configurations (configs may vary depending on the client):

:::info static subdomains

> Only accounts with static subdomains (for example, abc123.us1.dbt.com) can use OAuth with MCP servers. All accounts are in the process of being migrated to static subdomains by Dec 2025. Please contact support for more information.

Reviewer 3: What is an example that is not static subdomain? Is static subdomain the new name of cell based deployment?

Reviewer 4: cc @DevonFulcher - we should prob have an example so users are super clear

Reviewer: Static subdomains are account-level subdomains that every account will have, regardless of whether the account is MC, MT, or ST. I believe users will be redirected to this new URL when they log in to dbt Platform, and they can find it under `Access URL` in the settings. @nehahystad will know more.

:::

<MCPExample />

> Once configured, when your session queries the dbt platform account, you are brought to the OAuth workflow for authentication, and then to your account to select the project you want to reference.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once configured, your session connects to the dbt platform account, starts the OAuth authentication workflow, and then opens your account where you can select the project you want to reference.
```
